= "Blessed Servers": Controlling Which Tahoe Servers Are Used =

The Tahoe "Introducer" is responsible for making sure that all clients know
about all servers. Tahoe clients, by default, will use any storage server
that they can. For each upload, they will ask all the reachable storage
servers (in a specific order), and will place shares on any who will accept
them. For download, they will again ask all the reachable servers, and will
download shares from as many servers as necessary.

But you might want to limit your uploads to certain servers, those which meet
some minimum standards of quality. Given a finite amount of upload bandwidth,
you probably want to put your shares just on "good" servers: those that you
believe will provide good service. This means servers which will be around
again later, and which will return shares quickly (low-latency,
high-bandwidth) and uncorrupted.

Obviously, you cannot predict these properties in advance, and Tahoe does not
yet provide a reputation-based mechanism of recording server behavior and
using it to influence future peer-selection decisions. But for many use cases
(especially the "commercial grid" and the small friendnet scenarios), it is
sufficient to use a "closed grid", in which clients will only use specific
servers. To make this flexible and controllable, Tahoe offers a feature
called "server blessing", in which each client can be configured to only
upload to servers which have been "blessed" by some central authority.

This "blessing" is expressed by a public-key signature. The server announces
its service (such as storage) with a signed announcement message. Each client
is configured with a public key for the "storage" service: the client will
then only use servers whose announcements were signed with the corresponding
private key.

(in a future version, we intend to extend this mechanism to use a certificate
chain, rather than a single certificate)

This mechanism allows the Introducer to be oblivious to the client's
requirements, enabling the use of more distributed Introducer technology in
the future (such as peer-to-peer gossip).

== Servers: How To Get Blessed ==

Since Tahoe does not yet support certificate chains, blessing is simple: you
give each of the authorized servers a copy of the private key that should be
used to sign the announcements. This key should be copied into the
[storage]blesser.privkey entry in the BASEDIR/tahoe.cfg file (note that you
may want to make this file world-unreadable to protect the confidentiality of
this key):

 [storage]
 blesser.privkey = priv-v0-hlqtcy22l65jse4hxg2f

The public/private keypair is created by running "tahoe admin
generate-keypair", which will emit two lines:

 private: priv-v0-hlqtcy22l65jse4hxg2f
 public: pub-v0-2phrriw55ktlsm5o3z5je4fvlgorxen

== Clients: How To Require Blessing ==

Clients are configured by adding the blesser's pubkey to the tahoe.cfg
[client]storage.blesser entry:

 [client]
 storage.blesser = pub-v0-2phrriw55ktlsm5o3z5je4fvlgorxen

An announcement which matches any of the listed keys will be accepted.
